---
title: what is framework in programming
tags: Theme
season : summer
---

If we look at a couple different web applications we can see that there 
are a lot of duplicated features. Many have user authentication, pages 
that render, they connect to databases, they have profiles you can look 
at, they all have stylized feeds of information etc. If I wanted to, I 
could write all of that logic myself every time I want to build a new 
application; however, there are also a lot of tools available which can 
do that for us instead.

In addition, a lot of the time when we build applications we want to format
 our code in certain ways that help us become more efficient and help 
other developers understand our code. Web frameworks help us achieve 
structure in our applications, and they give us additional features we 
can add to them without too much extra work. Frameworks give us a place 
to start so that we can focus on features rather than configuration 
details.

Code is read many more times than it is written, and it is so important when you are 
working with other developers that they know where the code for certain 
tasks is being written so they can use it in their own code. The 
frameworks also have conventions for how the code is written and 
structured, which standardize how the developers write their code.

**Framework,** daha önceden hazırlanıp bizim 
kullanımımıza göre şekillendirebileceğimiz kod dokümanlarıdır. 
Bildiğiniz gibi bir proje geliştirirken projenin belli bir yerine kadar 
standart işlemler gerçekleştirilir veya bir sidebar yapmak istediğiniz 
yapılacak olan bellidir. Bunu sizin yerinize frameworkler yapıyor, sizde
 hazır olan düzeneğin üstünde çalışabiliyorsunuz. Bu sizlere zamandan 
tasarruf sağlar ve iş yükünüzü hafifletir.

Framework geliştiricilerin kullandığı daha önceden hazırlanmış kütüphanelerin bulunduğu ve bu mevcut kütüphanelere sürekli olarak yenilerinin eklendiği yapıdır. Frameworklerde form kontrolleri, veri tabanı işlemleri, kullanıcı işlemleri ve hesap kontrolleri gibi çeşitli kütüphaneler bulunmaktadır.
